Daniel Nieuwstraten
905 758 1934 (cell)
905 726 4279 (home)
dan_nieuwstraten@hotmail.com

Firstly, I was born and raised in the suburbs of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. My understanding is that I should be
eligible to work in the US on a TN permit on a few conditions.

I attended Cardinal Carter Catholic High School, earning several awards in math and computer science. I graduated
an Ontario Scholar and proceeded to go to Ryerson University for Computer Engineering on an academic scholarship.
I struggled with university considerably. Not with the course work, but with university life. After a year of
engineering, I switched programs to Business Management before switching again to Computer Science. I finished
several years of the CS program, but ultimately did not finish my degree.

I have been involved with a variety of different projects recently. I coded a client tracking system for a mortgage
brokerage to specifications from scratch (PHP, MySQL, Javascript) entirely self taught while I was taking business
courses at Ryerson University. In addition to the coding, I set up the APACHE webserver to run the system in their
office.

I have worked and continue to work on a private MMO server. I began contributing as a GM running events, helping
with rule enforcement, and community management. This gradually shifted towards scripting NPCs, bug fixing, and C
source modifications. Eventually, I took over as head developer, employing a number of technologies: SVN for
versioning; SSH to manage, update, and maintain both the game and web servers; cron jobs for some scripts; and of
course the usual programming and web programming technologies (C, PHP, MySQL, Javascript). I am primarily
responsible for designing and implementing new game concepts, as well as bug fixing and improvements. I also
coordinated a volunteer development team that has varied in numbers from as few as 2 to as many as 8.

Most recently I have been working on a startup website. Legally I am not allowed to discuss the details as we are
working through the testing process leading up to our launch, but I have been responsible for implementing the design
of a graphic designer and coding the functionality of the site in its entirety. Again, the site is built using PHP,
MySQL, Javascript, and Flash for the custom video player. In addition to the coding, I have also configured and
installed the software running on the server, working in Debian through SSH.

I live games. I have some education and some practical experience. IGN offers unique and exciting opportunities,
and I would be very interested in working and learning with your organization, if possible.